title::The Legends are True.
date::January 10, 2018
images::MountainsSeattle.gif, AmazonGo.gif
image_alt::Some pics to make this wall of text a bit more interesting.
abstract::We go to Amazon, eat some great German food, and talk with Professor Miller about his journey at Net Perceptions
body::Unfortunately, the trend of my increasingly better sleep took a slight dip according to my Fitbit, but although I am still incredibly fascinated by my living statistics, I am beginning to realize that the accuracy of these metrics, althrough probably relatively close, are not perfect. Despite this, the morning started out pretty well since the clouds seemed to clear up and there was little mist in the sky. We were even able to see a few mountains from the Olympus National Park from our window as well as a cruise ship leaving the bay. I woke up a little early so I decided to clean up my bedding and check my phone for some updates from Abby who would've been in London by then. I was glad to hear that she made it alright and was having a great time so far. Many times while we are walking around, I find myself wishing that I could share this visit to Seattle with people that I am close with-- more than just this blog. After yesterday's post, it might not seem like it, but there are many many things that I omit from the blog simply because I get tired of typing on my tiny netbook. I am getting closer to my group the more time we spend together, but I still look forward to the day, when Abby, who has a great appetite for travel, and myself will be able to travel around and share these experiences.</p><p>At around 10 we met up with the group to discuss our day and start walking to Amazon HQ which was right downtown Seattle. As it turns out we ended up getting slightly lost in the middle of the campus since the buildings that were Amazon blended in so well to the surrounding area. Once inside, things began to look a little bit closer to how I expected them to. The lobby area was rather chic with very subtle decorations including a beautifully done literature wall. The texts seemed to range from a transcription of the lunar landing to a long columns of binary code that I suppose could have been apart of the same document. Around the corner was their reception area where we were given visitor passes and lead to the security checkpoint. The architecture at this stage was an artsy take on a warehouse or factory with concrete everything and tall exposed ceiling with the long flourescent lights hanging connected vertically instead of horizontally. Once inside, we immediately were in a multi-level food court with steps that also doubled as sitting areas with cushions. This is the kind of modern astetic that I had expected of a tech giant like Amazon. From there, we were lead up a couple levels to a large conference room where we would meet with our representatives and chat for a while. As a slight aside, we also noticed that Amazon had an incredibly relaxed dog policy with maybe three or four dogs in sight. As we would later leave, we would also see people just casually bringing their dogs to work which was an interesting sight.</p><p>The Luther grads that we met were Jacob Miller, Robbie Nesmith and Kirby Olson who all had graduated within the past couple years and have been working for Amazon for no more than one year. Additionally, we were introduced to Stephanie Preouolos who was a university hiring rep and Danny Tormoen whom Dr. Miller knew as the son of a close business partner. The meeting with the university rep and the Luther grads mostly felt like a pitch to work for Amazon rather than getting to know their experiences, but this was likely not fault of their own. The questions that we had asked previous hosts such as, "What was something that you took away from each of your jobs?" and "What are some of the challenges of working in a small company" just didn't seem appropriate so it took us a while to figure out what to ask. In the meantime, they talked about what working for Amazon was like and why we should consider also applying to work there.</p><p>We did, however, manage to pick their brains enough to get some pretty good advice from them. We learned that in the real world, or at least at Amazon, languages like Python aren't really used for the heavy-lifting on the backend, and that Luther could've done more to prepare its students for working in Java and C++. Additionally, creating unit tests to test your code is something that isn't really taught much but is used heavily in reality. Also extensive use of Github is something that isn't really taught at Luther, but I have been fortunate enough to get to know better through working with Professor Miller on Runestone Interactive this past summer. On the other hand, the students felt that Luther did a great job at preparing them for the logical tasks that would be presented in the outside world. Obviously our class assignments are a bit less complicated than creating a computer vision system that allows for the creation of cashierless stores, but they felt equipped to attack the problem head on. The also advised us on establishing our network and really utilizing that when looking for employment. The last major take-away I got pertained to knowing when you've spent enough time on a problem to know when you need more help. The advice that we got was to make a time box for yourself. This means you set a time limit that you will work on finding a solution or brainstorming ideas and for the next, say 30 miinutes, focus entirely on the issue. If you are stuck by the end without an idea, then by the Amazon model, you should seek out advice from a mentor. This differed greatly from the way John Rauser, the man we met at Snapchat, preferred to tackle problems, but that is one thing we look for in this class: differing opinions.</p><p>After our meeting concluded, we dispersed for lunch and a few of us decided to take up a recommendation of the alumni and go to a place relatively nearby called The Berliner D&ouml;ner Kebab which had one of the greatest sandwiches I have ever eaten. Some of my closer readers might know that I am a fairly picky eater, but have improved over the recent years. Well, when eating with people I don't know very well in places that I don't feel comfortable enough to ask for no this-or-that ingrediant, I just suck it up and eat whatever comes with what I think is the safest option. This was such an occasion, but I will say that the sandwich would not have been the same if I asked to exclude the tomatoes, cucumber, peppers, and special yogurt mix. The berliner that I had was so amazing that I am now more assured than ever that I need to go to Germany at some point in my life. Holy cow. And its not just me that found it delicious-- everyone in our six-man group and Professor Miller and Kirby were all talking about it later in the day! It was really fantastic. <em>If you are ever in the Seattle area, you need to check out The Berliner D&ouml;ner Kebab</em>. I promise you will not regret it. Unless you are a vegitarian... but even then they have a vegitarian menu that looked just as promising. So essentially, you have no excuse not to go!</p><p>After we finsihed our meal, half of us decided to go back to the condo and relax a bit before meeting up to talk with Professor Miller about his experience at Net Perceptions, a company that he helped found and run, but more on that to come. Once back at the condo, I decided to jot down a few notes for my blog about the Amazon visit and also take a look at the swag we got from our visit which included a t-shirt (<em>Yes!</em>), an amazon sticker, and a small pamphlet about internships at Amazon. Browsing through the pamphlet, I found myself curious about what opportunities Amazon might be able to present to me and I went to their site to see an application. Fortunately, there were many positions that they were looking to fill in the development area for interns. Unfortunately, they are mostly in Seattle with single positions in Minneapolis and Madison being the closest to my home. I tossed around the idea for applying for the more local positions but also found myself a little bit interested in applying for the one's in Seattle as well. Although, when I first arrived, I did not really enjoy the bustle of the city and the constant and immense, and I mean immense, amount of construction, the city has grown on me some. I can see why people like the city so much despite its rather high prices and sometimes depressing weather. There is just a culture to the city that just exudes excitement. But as it was time to get going, I paused my thought on the matter and went with my roommates to meet the group and Professor Miller.</p><p>You may be reading this post right now thinking, "What was the title all about? I haven't really seen anything that might warrant a title like that yet." Well, this is what the title is about. Our talk with Professor Miller about his time with Net Perceptions has made my trip so far for a number of reasons. Firstly, ever since I had my first class with Professor Miller the second semester of my first year at Luther, I have had a lot of respect and admiration for him and his work. I have enjoyed each class I have had with him and am incredibly grateful for the opportunity to work with him on Runestone Interactive not only because of how close he keeps this project to him, but because of the experience of working in the field of CS. For me, Professor Miller has been somebody I look up to in many ways both inside and outside of the academic world. Admittedly, I have found myself several times striving to try to impress him with my work or knowledge and have several times felt a little embarrassed by my efforts. I have yet to make something that I think is truly worth his time. I feel that I am doing competent work for the level that I am at, but I strive to do so much more-- to make an impression on the man that I look up to. To give him a reason to remember me. To give me an opportunity to pick his brain and try to know even a fraction of what he does.</p><p>The story of Net Perceptions is not mine to tell and I don't think that I could really do it justice here and now. But, for some context, Net Perceptions was a company that Dr. Miller and a few others founded back in 1996 during the beginning of the .com boom. The company liscenced software that used a recommendation algorithm called collaborative filtering to quickly filter a catolog of items based upon what other like-minded users were viewing or enjoying. The idea for the algorithm started out as a PhD research thesis that was intended to allow Professor Miller to fulfill his dream of teaching at Luther, but through the helpful proding of his business partners, became an entirely new market of software that really helped shape the way people use the internet today. Net Perceptions is a legend in that regard. Some of their most notable buyers included Amazonand JC Penny who still uses an old form of its services today. During its peak, Net Perceptions had about 130 software developers working for it and was estimated to be worth more than Northwest Airlines. Professor Miller discussed with us the process from start to finish of creating and managing this company as one of it's executives and the ups and downs of being a founder.</p><p>I think that if you were to add up the number of words he spoke during his discussion today, I would not be surprised if it were more than I have ever heard him speak, but I was enthralled by what he had to say. I could listen to him talk about his experiences for hours and I feel that there is so much to learn from him! Hearing about how excited and nervous he was when the company first really took off and how genuinely sorry he was when he went through the worst day of his professional career: laying off nearly half of his development team after 80% of Net P's customers went bankrupt was something I had only imagined being able to learn about. To see Professor Miller break from the mold I had seen him in as an instructor who kept himself very professional and become a regular joe who would crack jokes and speak his mind about things that really bothered him and to watch his expression change from joy to seriousness to admiration to sadness as he recanted his story was a surreal experience for me.</p><p>The amount of respect I have gained for Professor Miller cannot be quantified and I do truly feel blessed to not only have been able to have had the opportunity to be taught by him, but to have been able to go on this trip with him as it will be the last time he gives it. In fact, this is his last year teaching at Luther as he will be pursuing his passion for Runestone fulltime. I assure you that it is not out of a lost interest in teaching, but rather an increased passion in Runestone and how it could change the world. In a way, he will still be teaching by enabling teachers from around the world to get access to free resources and textbooks about computer science and fostering the passion in their students much like Professor Miller's teacher did for him. Again, this is not my story to tell, but Professor Miller attributes a lot of where he is today to his teacher Mr. W at a young age. Mr. W, although he knew nothing about CS recognized the passion and curiosity Professor Miller and his friend had for it and took it upon himself to buy them books that could further their knowledge. He even went so far as to literally drive them to coding competitions where they could compete and learn and play in his own free time. Despite his lack of knowledge, Mr. W began teaching a course on computer science so that Professor Miller could learn even more and get credit for his efforts. It is teachers like Mr. W that inspire us all to pursue our passions and to investigate our curiosity. Without the work of Mr. W, it is likely that Professor Miller would not be in the position he is today.</p><p>Thank you, Mr. W, for allowing <em>me</em> to have the opportunity to meet and be taught and inspired by an amazing teacher. Thank you, Brad Miller, for being an inspiration for me and for pushing me whether directly or indirectly to learn as much as I can about this amazing and ever-changing field of computer science. Thank you, Mrs. Hamilton, for fostering that curiosity in myself and allowing me to investigate my own curiosity. Thank you, Ms. McGovern for helping me learn even more about this field. Thank you, Mr. Holland, for giving me a space to explore and apply my knowledge and encouragement to pursue the many things I am passionate about. Thank you, Mom and Dad, for also encouraging me to pursue my interests and for helping get to where I am today. Lastly, thank you to everyone who I have come to interact with for you have each, in some way, shaped me into the person I am today. Without you all, I would not have these wonderful opportunities and would not be the person I am today.</p><p><em>Try to do something that makes you uncomfortable, for it is through those experiences that you learn so much.</em> -Tim Chen</p>
tags::Seattle, Food, Memorable, Visit-Day
~~~
